---
layout:     post
title:      "CF Round #677总结"
subtitle:   " \"迟来的CF总结，迟来的我\""
date:       2020-10-24 17:00:00
author:     "XDong"
header-img: "img/post-bg-wlop-2880x1800.jpg"
tags:
    - 算法
---


# Codeforces Round #677 (Div. 3)


- [Codeforces Round #677 (Div. 3)](#codeforces-round-677-div-3)
  - [A. Boring Apartments](#a-boring-apartments)
  - [B. Yet Another Bookshelf](#b-yet-another-bookshelf)
  - [C. Dominant Piranha](#c-dominant-piranha)


## [A. Boring Apartments](https://codeforces.com/contest/1433/problem/A)
There is a building consisting of 10 000 apartments numbered from 1 to 10 000, inclusive.

Call an apartment boring, if its number consists of the same digit. Examples of boring apartments are 11,2,777,9999 and so on.

Our character is a troublemaker, and he calls the intercoms of all boring apartments, till someone answers the call, in the following order:

First he calls all apartments consisting of digit 1, in increasing order (1,11,111,1111).
Next he calls all apartments consisting of digit 2, in increasing order (2,22,222,2222)
And so on.
The resident of the boring apartment x answers the call, and our character stops calling anyone further.

Our character wants to know how many digits he pressed in total and your task is to help him to count the total number of keypresses.

For example, if the resident of boring apartment 22 answered, then our character called apartments with numbers 1,11,111,1111,2,22 and the total number of digits he pressed is 1+2+3+4+1+2=13.

You have to answer t independent test cases.

Input
The first line of the input contains one integer t (1≤t≤36) — the number of test cases.

The only line of the test case contains one integer x (1≤x≤9999) — the apartment number of the resident who answered the call. It is guaranteed that x consists of the same digit.

Output
For each test case, print the answer: how many digits our character pressed in total.

中文大意:输入房间号的位数之和,如输入22时输出13  
(1 11 111 1111 22 = 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 1 + 2 = 13)

解析:模拟就完事,但是不知道为什么直接的过不了,(感觉CF的编译器有问题)

```cpp
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

int main() {
  int t;
  cin >> t;
  while (t--) {
    string str;
    cin >> str;
    int num = int(str[0] - '1') * 10 + str.size() * (str.size() + 1) / 2;
    cout << num << endl;
  }
  return 0;
}
```


## [B. Yet Another Bookshelf](https://codeforces.com/contest/1433/problem/B)
There is a bookshelf which can fit n books. The i-th position of bookshelf is ai=1 if there is a book on this position and ai=0 otherwise. It is guaranteed that there is at least one book on the bookshelf.

In one move, you can choose some contiguous segment [l;r] consisting of books (i.e. for each i from l to r the condition ai=1 holds) and:

Shift it to the right by 1: move the book at index i to i+1 for all l≤i≤r. This move can be done only if r+1≤n and there is no book at the position r+1.
Shift it to the left by 1: move the book at index i to i−1 for all l≤i≤r. This move can be done only if l−1≥1 and there is no book at the position l−1.
Your task is to find the minimum number of moves required to collect all the books on the shelf as a contiguous (consecutive) segment (i.e. the segment without any gaps).

For example, for a=[0,0,1,0,1] there is a gap between books (a4=0 when a3=1 and a5=1), for a=[1,1,0] there are no gaps between books and for a=[0,0,0] there are also no gaps between books.

You have to answer t independent test cases.

Input
The first line of the input contains one integer t (1≤t≤200) — the number of test cases. Then t test cases follow.

The first line of the test case contains one integer n (1≤n≤50) — the number of places on a bookshelf. The second line of the test case contains n integers a1,a2,…,an (0≤ai≤1), where ai is 1 if there is a book at this position and 0 otherwise. It is guaranteed that there is at least one book on the bookshelf.

Output
For each test case, print one integer: the minimum number of moves required to collect all the books on the shelf as a contiguous (consecutive) segment (i.e. the segment without gaps).

中文大意:输出移动的最小次数

解析:输出最左边的1和最右边的1之间的零的个数

```cpp
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

int arr[55];
int main() {
  int t;
  cin >> t;
  while (t--) {
    int n;
    cin >> n;

    int left = 0, right = 0, flag = 0;
    for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
      cin >> arr[i];
      if (arr[i] == 1) {
        if (flag == 0) {  // 最左边的1 
          left = i;
          flag = 1;
        }
        right = i;  // 最右边的1 
      }
    }

    int res = 0;
    for (int i = left; i <= right; i++) {
      if (arr[i] == 0) {
        res++;
      }
    }
    cout << res << endl;
  }
  return 0;
}
```


## [C. Dominant Piranha](https://codeforces.com/contest/1433/problem/C)
There are n piranhas with sizes a1,a2,…,an in the aquarium. Piranhas are numbered from left to right in order they live in the aquarium.

Scientists of the Berland State University want to find if there is dominant piranha in the aquarium. The piranha is called dominant if it can eat all the other piranhas in the aquarium (except itself, of course). Other piranhas will do nothing while the dominant piranha will eat them.

Because the aquarium is pretty narrow and long, the piranha can eat only one of the adjacent piranhas during one move. Piranha can do as many moves as it needs (or as it can). More precisely:

The piranha i can eat the piranha i−1 if the piranha i−1 exists and ai−1<ai.
The piranha i can eat the piranha i+1 if the piranha i+1 exists and ai+1<ai.
When the piranha i eats some piranha, its size increases by one (ai becomes ai+1).

Your task is to find any dominant piranha in the aquarium or determine if there are no such piranhas.

Note that you have to find any (exactly one) dominant piranha, you don't have to find all of them.

For example, if a=[5,3,4,4,5], then the third piranha can be dominant. Consider the sequence of its moves:

The piranha eats the second piranha and a becomes [5,5–,4,5] (the underlined piranha is our candidate).
The piranha eats the third piranha and a becomes [5,6–,5].
The piranha eats the first piranha and a becomes [7–,5].
The piranha eats the second piranha and a becomes [8–].
You have to answer t independent test cases.

Input
The first line of the input contains one integer t (1≤t≤2⋅104) — the number of test cases. Then t test cases follow.

The first line of the test case contains one integer n (2≤n≤3⋅105) — the number of piranhas in the aquarium. The second line of the test case contains n integers a1,a2,…,an (1≤ai≤109), where ai is the size of the i-th piranha.

It is guaranteed that the sum of n does not exceed 3⋅105 (∑n≤3⋅105).

Output
For each test case, print the answer: -1 if there are no dominant piranhas in the aquarium or index of any dominant piranha otherwise. If there are several answers, you can print any.

中文大意:有没有鱼可能成为那条可以吃掉所有其他鱼的鱼

解析:所有鱼的体积不一样时,必然会出现这样的鱼,输出左右两边存在比它体积小的鱼的鱼

```cpp
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

int n;
int arr[300005];
int main() {
  int t;
  cin >> t;
  while (t--) {
    int max_cnt = 0, max = 0, res;
    cin >> n;
    for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
      scanf("%d", &arr[i]);
      if (arr[i] >= max) {
        if (arr[i] > max) {
          max = arr[i];
          max_cnt = 1;
          res = i + 1;
        } else {
          max_cnt++;
        }
      }
    }
    if (max_cnt == n) {  // 所有鱼体积一样
      cout << -1 << endl;
    } else {
      if (arr[n - 1] == max && arr[n - 2] != max) {  // 最右边的特殊处理
        res = n - 1 + 1;
      }
      for (int i = 0; i < n - 1; i++) {  // 遍历,比较右边是否有比它小的鱼
        if (arr[i] == max && arr[i + 1] != max) {
          res = i + 1;
          break;
        }
      }
      cout << res << endl;
    }
  }
  return 0;
}
```